Here's what makes your relationship feel
like work. You're trying to change the
other person. Not only does it make it
feel like work, it makes it feel like
it's impossible work because you can't
change another person. You know, there's
that classic story about one finger
pointing at you as three pointing back
at me. And I remember that moment when I
learned it with my wife. I remember that
we were in therapy and at some point I
was like, "Yeah, there's nothing I'm
going to do that's going to change this
woman. The only thing that I can do is
change myself." And more importantly
than that, what I realized is that
anytime I was upset, that was me. That
was mine. It doesn't mean that there was
something she was doing that was
unacceptable or that I needed to ask to
have change or I needed to draw a
boundary. All that was true.
But if I was triggered by it, that was
that was me. Somebody else could be
sitting there not triggered by it. Like
she used to wear these like just crazy
outfits. like she had like feather boas
and you know she dressed by braille you
know and it was an artist thing in the
in the '9s and I was so bothered by that
at some points and I was realizing
somebody else would just think it was
the greatest thing in the world
me being bothered by it isn't about her
me trying to change her isn't about her
it's about me
and that's when I realized when I
started to really focus on myself in the
relationship what I realized is that the
relationship ationship was a way for us
to learn our own freedom, but more
importantly for me to learn my own
freedom.
That I could use everything I was
triggered by in the relationship to
learn about myself, to find my own
freedom. That I could find every way
that I felt out of control in the
relationship to be a pointer for where I
needed to do the work to understand
myself better. And I realized at some
point in that in that whole thing that
it's like, oh, she might never change. I
might actually not want to end up being
with her,
but it didn't really matter because what
I saw was that if I kept on using this
relationship to heal myself,
then I would find a great relationship
either with her or with somebody else
because I was going to get into a
relationship that I was capable of being
in. I was going to accept the love that
I was capable of accepting. I was going
to love in the manner that I was capable
of loving. And it didn't have anything
to do with the other person.
And so I just really started focusing on
working on myself. I'm triggered. That
means there's something in me I don't
like. I'm upset. That means there's
something for me to learn. And as that
started happening, as I started working
on myself, there was something else I
started to realize, which is I was
perfectly matched with my wife to
trigger each other. Like I I was exactly
in a way like her father, just enough to
trigger her. She was exactly like my
mother in just enough of a way to
trigger me. That we were going through
our childhood wounds with each other.
That often times I was listening to her,
but I wasn't listening to her. I was
listening to my mom or my dad. It wasn't
her. I was just living in some old
trauma. She was living in some old
trauma. But we were perfectly matched to
work this stuff out. And luckily, I had
a wife who also wanted to work it out
with me.
She also realized at about the same time
that there was no way she was going to
control me that the thing she was going
to do is she was going to use the
relationship to learn about herself.
That's something that I've learned now
working with thousands of couples is
that almost everybody is matched. If
they've been in a relationship for say
over 6 months and they're stuck in a
pattern, that pattern very much is a
pattern that they're trying to heal from
their childhood. And nobody's better,
nobody's worse, nobody needs to change
and nobody doesn't need to change.
They're just repeating a pattern so that
they can learn and heal and learn how to
grow and love each other more. That's
it. And and in that love themselves
more, what I notice is that that is
perpetually the case. And if you can see
that in your relationship, if you can
see, oh, this perfect person is geared
exactly to have me heal the stuff that I
need to heal, and it's triggering
exactly the parts of me that need to
heal, then you can see this person as a
blessing. And the work isn't the work.
The work is your freedom. It is the most
direct path to your freedom. I cannot
think of anything except for maybe
raising my kids that has given me more
freedom than being married to my wife
because I just kept on seeing this as a
path to understanding myself. This as a
path to seeing what triggered me, to
seeing what I didn't love about myself,
to seeing what I was ashamed of, to
healing those things. And she was
perfectly positioned to do that. And so
then it wasn't work, then it was like
freedom. It was a gift.
It was just a like a deep welcoming of
any conflict that we had because I knew
each conflict that we had, if we focused
on ourselves, eventually we would find
freedom. We would be closer. We would
grow together. There's definitely going
to be some of you who are thinking to
yourself, "Yeah, that's all well and
good, Joe. I can do all that, but my
partner doesn't want to do that. My
partner doesn't want to grow. My partner
doesn't want to do any of this work. My
partner wants to blame me." And I would
say, "Wow, that's your perfect match,
isn't it? That probably is exactly like
your parents who didn't want to meet you
or your sister who didn't want to meet
you." And so, there's something in that
for you to learn. Now, that doesn't mean
that you stay with them or you don't
stay with them. That's a choice that
you're going to make. But as long as
you're choosing to stay with that
person, then it's a time to choose to
make it about you, not make it about
them. What do you have to do to love
them as they are? Even when you're
walking away, even if you choose to
leave them, what's required from you to
love them as they are, to not look for
them to change? So, if you and your
partner are both interested in really
learning the skills, then I really
recommend the connection course. In the
connection course, you're going to be
able to hang out with each other and
learn skills about really going into and
understanding one another and learning
to understand yourself, how to deal with
getting triggered, how to be in wonder,
how to be in empathy with one another.
And you get this free course at the end
of it about how to have great fights.
So, you get so much for couples and
we've had so many couples come in and do
the connection course and they do every
single segment just with themselves and
then they get to ask questions and
everything. But it's such a cool thing
what happens to couples. I cannot tell
you
at least 25 times in the last year
somebody's told me that I might have
saved their marriage through the
connection course. So, I highly
recommend it if both you and your
partner are interested in doing